% LUAFCGID-CONFIG(5) LuaFCGId User Manuals
%
% October 8, 2011

# NAME

luafcgid-config - configuration script for LuaFCGId

# DESCRIPTION

The configuration file for LuaFCGId. This file is actaully a Lua script that is
loaded into a global Lua VM state, then executed once at startup. This allows for
conditional configuration and callbacks to be created and registered.

# SYNTAX

The configuration script **must** be a valid and well-formed Lua script. All
standard Lua syntax rules apply. It will typically be composed of three sections;
global variables, callback definitions, and callback registrations. The callback
definitions and registrations can be accomplished at the same time if desired.
Also, since this is a script, you can use expressions for any of the variables. 
Please see the included sample configuration script for an example.

# VARIABLES

listen = <*string*>
:	Socket path to listen for fastcgi requests on. This can be either a unix
	socket, such as `"/var/tmp/luafcgid.sock"`, or a TCP socket, as in
	`"127.0.0.1:9000"`

workers = <*integer*>
:	Number of worker threads. This will be the maximum number of simultaneous
	requests processed by LuaFCGId.

states = <*integer*>
:	Maximum number of Lua VM states allowed. (**NOTE: value needs to be larger
	then or equal to "workers"**)

clones = <*integer*>
:	Maximum number of instances of an individual script allowed. Together with
	"states", This affects things such as number of database connections.

sweep = <*integer*>
:	Housekeeping sweep cycle in milliseconds.

retries = <*integer*>
:	Number of search cycles before creating a new Lua VM state for a requested
	script. This is typically set higher then 1 as a workaround for troublesome
	implementations of pthreads.

showerrors = <*boolean*>
:	Whether to show errors as HTML in the browser. Production sites should set
	this to **false**.

buffering = <*boolean*>
:	Controls output buffering of HTTP reponse data from the script to the client
	browser. HTTP reponse headers are always buffered.

headersize = <*integer*>
:	Starting buffer size for custom HTTP reponse headers in bytes.

bodysize = <*integer*>
:	Starting buffer size for HTTP reponse data. This value is ignored if
	"buffering" is set to **false**.
	
headers = <*string*>
:	Custom header to add to all requests, such as a "X-Powered-By: Lua".

handler = <*string*>
:	Handler function name. This is the name of the function in your scripts that
	LuaFCGId will call when a request arrives. The function is passed the
	environment table and connection objects as the first and second
	parameters, respectively.

httpstatus = <*string*>
:	Default HTTP status for responses. Should be set to "200 OK" unless you know
	what you are doing.

contenttype = <*string*>
:	Default HTTP content type for responses. 

maxpost = <*integer*>
:	Maximum POST size allowed.

logfile = <*string*>
:	Full or relative path to logfile.





